Let's go back to some of
our more specialized and potentially difficult candidates for custom channels.
There are remarketing and prospecting display campaigns.
There is RLSA, which is another form of remarketing,
but specifically for search ads within Google Ads.
There are brand and generic paid search channels that we can break out.
There are YouTube remarketing,
instream and discovery campaigns.
There are click-throughs from YouTube cards and YouTube end screens.
Let's first consider remarketing as a custom channel.
A great custom channel to define, but a difficult one.
There are potentially a couple of challenges with defining a remarketing channel.
First, if you're using Google Ads or YouTube remarketing,
your remarketing campaigns are recorded with the source medium value of Google cpc.
Which would mean by default,
your remarketing click-throughs would be matched to the paid search channel.
Another potential challenge with your remarketing channel definition is that
you may have remarketing that is not administered through Google Ads.
If we went into the AdWords campaigns report,
or the all campaigns report and we added source medium as a secondary dimension,
we would see in fact,
that our AdWords remarketing campaigns are coming through with Google cpc,
as the source medium value.
Again, the problem here is that
this source medium value would match the paid search channel definition.
If that is specific enough for you, that's okay.
But I know that I would want to break out remarketing as its own channel.
But how are we going to define this remarketing channel?
We can't use source medium value as we
saw in the channel definitions in the last section.
But since we can't control the names of our campaigns within AdWords,
this will be the key.
As long as we remember to include remarketing at
the beginning of our actual remarketing campaign names within AdWords,
we'll have what we need to define a channel.
We're back in the channel definition screen.
In the Test view, we'll click new channel, Remarketing, Campaign,
starts with remarketing or campaign starts
with remarketing with a small r. We could've also used a regular expression in this case.
But what about our non-Google ads remarketing campaigns on networks such as AdRoll?
In that case, we're not using auto tagging.
We can define our own UTM medium value,
and we would define that UTM medium value as remarketing.
So, what we could do in this case is expand the remarketing channel definition.
We'll add another or statement; or,
medium, exactly matches, remarketing.
So now, we have a hybrid remarketing channel definition
that will pull in all of our remarketing campaigns.
If we wanted to create a custom channel definition for prospecting,
we could follow the same process.
Make sure to include prospecting at the beginning of the campaign names in Google Ads,
and that would mean we could define the prospecting channel as campaign starts with
prospecting or campaign starts with prospecting
with a little p. If you are running prospect and campaigns on other networks,
and you can use UTM medium equals prospecting on those networks
or medium, exactly matches, prospecting.
Similarly, if we wanted to define a channel for our RLSA campaigns to find a new channel;
RLSA, campaign, starts with RLSA.
We would need to make sure to begin all of our RLSA campaigns with
RLSA in the AdWords interface
and then we could define the channel within Google Analytics.
Lets consider the special case of Brand Paid Search and Generic Paid Search.
Google Analytics provides some help to us in defining these channels.
We'll click in to Manage Brand Terms.
Let's say that you are working with the Acme Company and the Acme Company is
marketing a special combination hammer and wrench called the hammewrench.
So, enter acme as a brand term.
We'll also enter URL variations and we'll enter hammewrench.
Save the brand terms and we're automatically prompted to set up channels.
We see the confirmation that
the Generic Paid Search and Brand Paid Search channels have been set up for us.
Let's talk about custom channels for
YouTube remarketing instream and discovery campaigns.
YouTube campaigns are administered through AdWords.
Like other AdWords campaigns,
they come through with the source medium value of Google cpc.
So, if we did want to define a channel for any of these types of YouTube remarketing,
we could again make sure that we included an identifier in the beginning of
the campaign name within AdWords and
then we would have what we needed to define our channel.
So for instance in the case of YouTube discovery ads,
if we included YT Discovery at the beginning of all of our campaigns,
we could go into our channel definitions to find
a new channel; YouTube discovery, campaign,
starts with YT Discovery and
you could enter any other additional conditions for case variations.
Let's consider other types of custom channels within
Google Analytics that we could define for YouTube click-throughs.
If you are a part of the YouTube Partner Program,
you can include cards in your video to include
actions such as clicking through to your website.
Same thing for end screens.
In these cases, you would be able to control UTM medium and
UTM source because they're not administered
through AdWords and they aren't governed by auto tagging.
So, in these cases,
you would be able to define a custom channel,
the so-called normal way,
just based on medium value and source value.